Results- hetionet reconstruction (#16)
greenelab/text_mined_hetnet_manuscript: content/04.results.md

## Random Noise Generative Model
place the results of random label function experiment

### Reconstructing Hetionet

> Once the discriminiative model has been calibrated, we compared our model to a baseline model [@tag:cocoscore] (Figure {@fig:cocoscore_comparison}) and  estimated the number of edges that can be added/recalled from Hetionet v1 (Figure Figure {@fig:hetionet_reconstruction}).

Reviewer: Does it matter that you use the calibrated model here? I don't think you're using the probabilities if I understand correctly.

Also, since the calibration may or may not have worked (kinda unclear from those plots if it's really better calibrated - why use the calibrated edges here? I could understand why you would if it worked - because then you could directly used the probabilities emitted from the model. I'm just not sure why it's used here if the calibration didn't really work.

> Once the discriminiative model has been calibrated, we compared our model to a baseline model [@tag:cocoscore] (Figure {@fig:cocoscore_comparison}) and  estimated the number of edges that can be added/recalled from Hetionet v1 (Figure Figure {@fig:hetionet_reconstruction}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the discriminiative model has been calibrated, we compared our model to a baseline model [@tag:cocoscore] (Figure {@fig:cocoscore_comparison}) and  estimated the number of edges that can be added/recalled from Hetionet v1 (Figure {@fig:hetionet_reconstruction}).
```

Reviewer: Also, I'm not sure why the comparison and adding edges are stuck together as a combined section. Is there something that links them?

> Regarding model comparison we evaluated edge prediction performance using all edges assigned to our test set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We evaluated edge prediction performance using all edges assigned to our test set.
```

> Scores for both models are reported in the form of area under the receiver operative curve (AUROC) and area under the precision recall curve (AUPR).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We report performance for both models with AUROC and AUPR.
```
Only define acronyms the first time.

The baseline model outperforms our model for majority of edge types.

> Our model achieves an AUROC of 78% and an AUPR of 28% for Disease-associates-Gene (DaG), while the baseline model achieves a score of 82% and 45% resepctively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our model achieves an AUROC of 78% and an AUPR of 28% for DaG, while the previously published model achieves a score of 82% and 45% respectively.
```

> For Gene-interacts-Gene the baseline model achieved an AUROC of 73% and an AUPR of 11%, while our model achieved an AUROC of 72% and an AUPR of 7%.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Gene-interacts-Gene the baseline model achieved an AUROC of 73% and an AUPR of 11%, while our model achieved an AUROC of 72% and an AUPR of 7%.
```

> Our model out performed the literature model for Compound-treats-Disease (CtD) by obtaining an AUROC of 94% and an AUPR of 40%.

Reviewer: All of these things are apparent from the figure. You don't need to repeat things that are exactly in the figure in a text form. Can you summarize the main interpretation here? See what I did in #15 for discriminative model performance.

place the results of random label function experiment

## Reconstructing Hetionet
After the discriminiative model has been calibrated, we estimated the number of edges that can be added/recalled from Hetionet v1.
Figure {@fig:hetionet_reconstruction}, depicts the number of edges based on precision level.

> For Disease associates Gene (DaG) we can add 74 new edges while matintaining 70% precision.

Reviewer 2: We usually do "Disease-associates-Gene"

Likewise with Compound treats Disease (CtD) we can add 10 new edges while maintaining 70% precision.
As for Compound binds Gene (CbG) and Gene interacts Gene (GiG) the models fail to reach precision higher than 0.5 and 0.6 respectively.

> Despite the low performance, we are still able to add new edges (7 for CbG at 47% precision and 9 for GiG at 56% precision) to Hetionet v1.

Reviewer 2: How is precision determined here? Since you've done the probability calibration, could you just use the predicted probability as the precision of that point? Also note that 70% precision could actually be quite high if Hetionet is incomplete. In these cases, all your top predictions could be true, but yet you may still get lower precision since the truth is not completely in Hetionet.

Author: Precision is calculated using already established edges as positive while never before seen edges are treated as negative. You raise a good point as there are some edges that might be true even though they haven't been seen in Hetionet.

Reviewer: Is this performance at recovering het.io on the test set?

Author: Performance here is using all edges in het.io as the evaluation set. After each sentence has been scored, I combined them together based on mention pair and take the max score for each pair.

Reviewer: Since het.io is used for distant supervision, is there an issue with this + evaluation?

Author: Hmmm..  Based on past experiences, my intuition says there is an overfitting problem or at least there is a confounding issue with the evaluation. If I'm on the right path, I should have "held out" edges from distant supervision label functions and see if my method can predict the "held out" edges downstream.

Reviewer: What if you evaluate this on only edges from the test set predictions?

](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/greenelab/snorkeling/master/figures/gen_model_error_analysis/transfer_test_set_auroc.png){#fig:random_label_function_auroc}

We observed that including one label function of a mismatched type to distant supervision often improved performance, so we evaluated the effects of adding a random label function in the same setting.
We found that adding random noise did not usually improve performance (Figures {@fig:random_label_function_auroc} and {@fig:random_label_function_auprc}).
For the CbG edge type we did observe slightly increased performance via AUPR (Figure {@fig:random_label_function_auprc}).
However, in general the performance changes were smaller than those observed with mismatched label types.

![
A grid of area under the precision recall curve (AUPR) for each edge type.
Each plot consists of adding a single label function on top of the baseline model.
This label function emits a positive (shown in blue) or negative (shown in orange) label at specified frequencies.
The error bars represent 95% confidence intervals for AUPR (y-axis) at emission frequency.

> ](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/greenelab/snorkeling/master/figures/gen_model_error_analysis/transfer_test_set_auprc.png){#fig:random_label_function_auprc}

Reviewer 2: Usually I suggest versioned links because when the image changes, oftentimes your manuscript should too.

The blue line represents the predictions before calibration and the orange line shows predictions after calibration. 
](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/greenelab/snorkeling/master/figures/model_calibration_experiment/model_calibration.png){#fig:discriminative_model_calibration}

### Baseline Comparison

> Once our discriminator model is calibrated, we compared our model's ability to predict edges in our test set to a previosuly published baseline model [@tag:cocoscore].

Reviewer 2: The discriminator provides predictions for sentences... how do you convert from sentence predictions to edge predictions?

We report performance for both models in terms of AUROC and AUPR (Figure {@fig:cocoscore_comparison}).
Across edge types our model shows comparable performance against the baseline in terms of AUROC.
Regarding AUPR, our model shows hindered performance against the baseline.
The exception for both cases is CtD where our model performs better than the baseline.

![
Comparion between our model and CoCoScore model [@tag:cocoscore].
We report both model's performance in terms of area under the receiver operating curve (AUROC) and area under then precision recall curve (AUPR).
Our model achieves comparable performance against CoCoScore in terms of AUROC.
As for AUPR CoCoScore consistently outperforms our model except for compound treats disease (CtD). 

> ](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/greenelab/snorkeling/master/figures/literature_models/model_comparison.png){#fig:cocoscore_comparison}

Reviewer 2: For the figure legend is there a name for "our model"? For example, if someone else were to show this figure in their presentation, "Our Model" would make less sense.

The AUROC bar chart should have a y-axis from 0.5 to 1.

### Reconstructing Hetionet

We evaluated how many edges we can recall and add to Hetionet v1 (Figure {@fig:hetionet_reconstruction}).
In our evaluation we used edges assigned to our test set.
Overall, we can recall a small amount of edges at high precision thresholds.
A key example is CbG and GiG where we recalled only one exisiting edge at 100% precision.
Despite the low recall, we are still able to add novel edges to DaG and CtD while retaining modest precision.

![
A scatter plot showing the number of edges (log scale) we can add or recall at specified precision levels. 
The blue depicts edges exisiting in hetionet and the orange depicts how many novel edges can be added.

> ](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/greenelab/snorkeling/master/figures/edge_prediction_experiment/edges_added.png){#fig:hetionet_reconstruction}

Reviewer 2: Have you tried adding lines between the points in this plot?

> 

Reviewer 2: To help people understand the output and its promise, would it be a good idea to include a table of top predictions?

You could image the following columns:

- edge type
- source node
- target node
- probability (generator)
- probability (discriminator)
- number of sentences
- example sentence

This table will vary depending on what exactly has been done relating to my above question:

> The discriminator provides predictions for sentences... how do you convert from sentence predictions to edge predictions?
